(Co-written by Mingyang Li and Yasotha Anandarajah)

Individual molecules are too small to characterize or to control. For decades, scientists have been struggling to construct an intuitive visualization for molecular motions, as well as wasting fundings synthesizing molecules that often fail to meet their expectations. Following the fast advancement of computational devices, It is now possible to simulate biomolecules’ behavior with computers (Humphrey, 1996). This technology, molecular dynamics (“MD”), simulates real-world physical laws and is often used to investigate the behavior of biomolecules that are often hard to synthesize (Allen, 2004).

In contrast to statistical mechanics, Molecular Dynamics takes a deterministic approach rather than relying on probabilities. MD is constructed on the assertion that, given the initial state of a system and physical rules that it follows, every parameter at any instant is determinable, where the collection of physical laws and related physical constants are referred to as a “forcefield”. However, being determinable does not mean being error-free. First, simulators often have to sacrifice accuracy for efficiency. This is done by ignoring minor interactions, which would result in a coarse calculation. Secondly, within the employed formulae themselves, the physical constants can all contribute errors, since their numerical values are all experimentally determined at a point. Different choices of formulae and numbers lead to different forcefields, which in turn lead to distinct simulation conclusions(Hummer, 2008). Therefore, results obtained from a MD simulation (just as every other man made tool) may not always reliable. To compensate for this inaccuracy, a system is usually run against multiple forcefields for cross-validation (Mackerell, 2004). In practice, Molecular Dynamics often cooperates with other techniques for better reliability, including probabilistic calculations and energy minimizations (Altman, 1993; Car, 1985). 

To further enhance efficiency, MD focuses on the collective effect of all interactions on each unit of the simulated object. Depending on the application, the simulated objects can be atoms, molecules, polymers during and after polymerization, proteins, etc. Their corresponding basic units can be electrons, atoms, monomers, structural units, amino acids and so on (Grest, 1986). Various types of interactions are calculated against each of these basic units. For example, in the simulation of a molecule consisting of several atoms, an appropriate force field might include LJ potential, Coulomb interaction, gravitational force and even magnetic field. This is computationally intensive even for supercomputers (Durrant, 2011). To simplify the job, MD softwares often employ approximate formulae that concentrate on the cumulative result of multiple forces on a particular particle (Sprik, 1998). Although prone to numerical errors, this optimization avoids repetitive computations and reduces the complexity. This whole art of algorithm made observing realistic molecular behaviours possible without actually synthesizing the molecule itself.  

MD simulations have proven to be extremely useful with respect to biological applications. Biological systems are characterized by their extreme complexity and unpredictability. For this reason, it is often very difficult to observe as well as model biological processes without disrupting the natural order of the system being observed. Through molecular dynamics simulations scientists are able to overcome this hurdle. Computational methods using the simple mathematical equations governing life systems at the molecular and atomic level can be used to create simulations that can effectively help model the inner workings of these biological systems with high levels of accuracy (Denbrack, 2004). Although molecular dynamics simulations can be extended to model virtually any complex biological system at the molecular level, it is most commonly used to display changes in protein and DNA conformation as well as the dynamic nature of lipid bilayers. Modelling these phenomena using molecular dynamics allows researcher to not only better visualize the inner workings of this system, but it also allows them to share their findings with other researchers that maybe studying the same systems. That which is not easily explained using words and pictures can quite easily be demonstrated through a series of molecular dynamics simulations. No matter how complex a biological system may be, at the molecular level they are all governed by the same physical processes and laws as inorganic matter. By creating simulations while using these laws and equations in the programming, researchers are better able to model biological processes that are otherwise involved in complex processes on a macromolecular scale (Denbrack, 2004). 

Molecular simulations have been exploited by researchers all over the world to help teach and model a wide array of biological processes. A specific example includes the modelling of the changing structure of the HIV-1 Protease Enzyme conducted by researchers at Henan University in China. HIV-1 Protease is the enzyme responsible for the cleavage of the viral polyproteins known as Gag and Gag Pol. Upon cleavage by HIV-1 protease, these viral polyproteins become activated and infectious. Since HIV-1 Protease is mainly responsible for the maturation of these viral polyproteins that later lead to HIV developing into AIDS, the enzyme is of great interest to scientists worldwide. Understanding the structural and conformational changes that occur within HIV-1 protease is extremely important for scientists studying the HIV virus and its method of action. This is because it is through the inhibition of this potent enzyme that the maturation of the polyproteins and the development of HIV into AIDS can be halted (Chen, 2012). Molecular Dynamics simulations in particular are extremely useful in modelling the conformational changes of this enzyme because it helps simplify changes that are occurring at otherwise very high speeds and on a molecular scale. Simulations, unlike verbal descriptions and images alone, are able to communicate intricate details and the inner workings of biological systems visually with far more efficacy. As these reasons suggest, Molecular Dynamics Simulations undeniably serve as an extremely promising tool in the field of biology.

In conclusion, the recent advances in computational methods have proven to be extremely useful in the field of biology by allowing for the creation molecular dynamic simulations. By exploiting the fact that organic systems too are governed by the same physical laws and equations as inorganic processes, molecular dynamics is able simplify hundreds of processes and systems that on a macromolecular scale may seem to be extremely complex. For the reasons discussed thus far, molecular dynamics simulation remains the leading tool for researchers that aim to study, model and teach their findings to others both inside and outside their field. 


## References
- Allen, M. P. (2004). Introduction to molecular dynamics simulation. Computational soft matter: from synthetic polymers to proteins, 23, 1-28. 
- Altman, R. B. (1993, July). Probabilistic structure calculations: a three-dimensional tRNA structure from sequence correlation data. In Ismb (pp. 12-20). 
- Best, R. B., Buchete, N., & Hummer, G. (2008, 07). Are Current Molecular Dynamics Force Fields too Helical? Biophysical Journal, 95(1). doi:10.1529/biophysj.108.132696 
- Car, R., & Parrinello, M. (1985, 11). Unified Approach for Molecular Dynamics and Density-Functional Theory. Phys. Rev. Lett. Physical Review Letters, 55(22), 2471-2474. doi:10.1103/physrevlett.55.2471 
- Chen, X., Chen, X., Wu, T., & Wang, Q. (2012). Simulation of steered molecular dynamics on the exploration of the dynamic structure of HIV-1 protease. Molecular Simulation, 38(4), 293-299. doi:10.1080/08927022.2011.621951 
- Dunbrack, R. (2004). Molecular Dynamics Simulation. Dictionary of Bioinformatics and Computational Biology. doi:10.1002/9780471650126.dob0453.pub2 
- Durrant, J. D., & McCammon, J. A. (2011). Molecular dynamics simulations and drug discovery. BMC biology, 9(1), 1. 
- Grest, G. S., & Kremer, K. (1986, 05). Molecular dynamics simulation for polymers in the presence of a heat bath. Phys. Rev. A Physical Review A, 33(5), 3628-3631. doi:10.1103/physreva.33.3628 
- Humphrey, W., Dalke, A., & Schulten, K. (1996, 02). VMD: Visual molecular dynamics. Journal of Molecular Graphics, 14(1), 33-38. doi:10.1016/0263-7855(96)00018-5 
- Mackerell, A. D., Feig, M., & Brooks, C. L. (2004, 08). Extending the treatment of backbone energetics in protein force fields: Limitations of gas-phase quantum mechanics in reproducing protein conformational distributions in molecular dynamics simulations. J. Comput. Chem. Journal of Computational Chemistry, 25(11), 1400-1415. doi:10.1002/jcc.20065 
- Sprik, M., & Ciccotti, G. (1998). Free energy from constrained molecular dynamics. The Journal of Chemical Physics J. Chem. Phys., 109(18), 7737. doi:10.1063/1.477419 
	   
	  
	  

