# Nuclear Power is the Future

After a 50-year journey of evolving, nuclear energy is proven to be the most potential source of energy for tomorrow. It not only displays a ridiculously high power yield in practice, but also does almost no harm to the environment if dealt with properly. In fact, most nuclear power plants can serve as radioactive material factories by themselves. A more efficient machine would be the perpetual motion machine, or a light bulb from Zeus.

To label something as “needed”, its necessity should be evaluated first, which process involves three steps: recognizing the situation, listing all the applicable – not necessarily working – ways of improvements and, among them, proving this very method to be most suitable for this condition.

The future of the condition of global energy is not optimistic. In one aspect, with an exponentially booming population and the rise of third-world economies, global energy demand is growing in light speed, calling for more power plants to be built. On the other hand, the worsening condition of the environment threats human health in a much fiercer way than ever before, forcing people to reconsider some of the world’s most polluting industries, including power generation. For instance, as fossil fuel resources run out, the days are getting tougher for coal-burning power plants. Plus, desertification, the process of losing vegetation around the globe, will be so serious that the government will give a second thought when permitting wood-burning activities, even though that’s often vital for developing countries to generate electricity.

At that time, no other power sources will be qualified to handle that situation. Non-renewable resources, as discussed above, will no longer be acceptable for generating power. Even for the renewable ones, some shortcomings are inevitable. One of the typical examples is the wind power. Wind strength is dependent on both landform and climate. Some basins hardly feel a gentle roam of the wind over the year, while the Dutch uses windmills to grind grains. Sometimes a tornado can rip apart several houses within minutes, sometimes the flags slouches like a dying old man.

Hydro power is almost identical. There are droughty deserts where a single drop of anything liquid is invaluably precious, and there are also places like Bangladesh where a flood can last for several months. In rainy seasons, storms roar and rivers gush, while streams dry out during the rest of the year. Additionally, hydro power plants are often utilized with reservoirs and dams, which is a huge cost compared to the installation of wind power generators.

The solar power seems like the most promising solution at present, for it has nearly no cost on the natural environment and has no special requirement on the geographical feature of the site. However, it also has its own distinctive shortcomings. The first one is the low transformation rate from solar power to electricity. In addition, solar panels take too much sun-blessed area. Land with sunshine will become more and more precious as global food demand grows with population over time, and putting panels floating on oceans needs a considerable expense of installation and management.

Indeed, the generation of electricity, as a kind of “artificial” resource, requires natural resources as raw material. If macroscopic materials like coals, wood, water and wind fail us, it is natural for us to turn to microscopic materials like nuclear energy, for they are less dependent on the environment.

The nuclear reaction goes on the atomic level, which suggests a high portability of the raw material. You cannot pack up the Amazon River, Dutch wind or Tibet sunshine in your suitcase, but you are surely able to seal some U-235 in your vacuum cup and take that with you. In other words, the site of a nuclear power plant can basically be anywhere it is needed, independent of a certain feature of the territory. This means that you can even set up a simple nuclear reactor in your garage if you like. The high independence from the environment of nuclear technology also suggests that it is very friendly to the eco-system. By requiring no fossil material or any plant, it does no harm to the nature. If operated carefully, little waste would be generated. 

Another major advantage of nuclear power over is its high efficiency. Once initiated and started running, such a reactor can undergo a series of nuclear fissions spontaneously. Much the opposite from traditional power sources, which often break down and stop working if left uncontrolled, a nuclear power plant will only go more and more violent under no supervision. This is a fabulous news for scientists who has racked their brains to find a way to promote the efficiency of old power plants.

Of course, this high productivity comes with high risks. The major concerns around the globe can be roughly divided into 2 categories: potential accident threat and nuclear weapon proliferation.

After the Chernobyl Meltdown in 1986 and Fukushima Disaster in 2011, people has been alarmed that both human error and natural events can result into catastrophic accidents if related with nuclear plants. Terrified people burst into tears the moment they heard of the term “radioactive materials”, crying for shutting down the nuclear reactors to prevent such catastrophe from happening ever again. For instance, billions of terrified Chinese civilians swept shops across mainland China in query for nothing but salt after the Fukushima Accident broke out, believing that this everyday condiment could “prevent” the radiation from Japan. For the first time in PRC, salt ran out of stock for something irrelevant to cooking, and it did not get any better until people realized that the radiation was far less violent than expected. 

In fact, if properly operated, nuclear power is one of the safest energy source ever, for the nuclear reactions it relies on are definitively stable – the principles they follow are exactly those used in radiometric dating, which yields really accurate results. For example, as the editor in chief W. Conard Holton pointed out in his research:

… in March 1979, a series of operator errors and miscommunications led to the partial core meltdown in the pressurized-water reactor at Three Mile Island Unit 2. The accident did not result in major damage outside of the core and primary cooling system, and according to all official estimates, the radiation released during the accident was minimal, well below levels that have been associated with health effects from radiation exposure. (Holton, 2005)

On the contrary, wind and hydro power are unpredictably risky: In less than half an hour, a tornado can easily blow up a dozen of standing structures, and flood can wipe out a whole innocent village from a broken dam.

Another horrifying issue is about the proliferation of nuclear arms. Extracting fuels for nuclear power plants can be an excellent excuse for enriching uranium, which would require an increased nuclear fuel capacity. Furthermore, the plutonium discharged from one nuclear reactor per year can be used in manufacturing approximately 24 nuclear bombs (Smith, 2006). To prevent that from happening, the International Atomic Energy Agency (IAEA), an organization dedicated to global nuclear issues, has promoted a number of regulations and protocols for its Member Nations, ensuring the power plants will not be used for military purposes. This agency also received the 2005 Nobel Peace Prize for stopping Iran and North Korea from obtaining nuclear weapons.

The fact is that, human beings have two natural weaknesses that often conflict: the fright to the mighty power and the greed to convenience. The mightier a power is, the more fearful its user becomes. Ultimately, this dread would result into refusal, which in turn restrains the power by means of curbing the usage, unavoidably affecting human’s benefit from this power. This awkward dilemma is exactly what nuclear energy is facing, and every single country, if not every individual, will has its own trade-offs. Time will judge whether the power is more helpful than it is dreadful, or the other way around.

Every state can see great opportunity from the rising of nuclear industry. To some, it makes good things better and improves people’s living standard. To some others, it is vital for their survival and development.

For developed countries like Japan and the US, nuclear power plants are better alternatives to traditional solutions, as they offer a practical approach to curb the pollution that Industrial Revolutions have brought present. In countries like France, nuclear energy has already taken more than a half of the national electricity supply.

As for developing countries, nuclear energy is an economical way to satisfy their fast-pacing power demand. The installation fee may seem expensive at first glance, but it is a worthy deal in the long run, considering the great support it adds to the country. That is part of the reason why countries like North Korea are desperately trying to get their hand on nuclear technology, if not merely for nuclear weapons.

In fact, the future has already begun. There are countries slowly replacing their traditional power plants with nuclear reactors, and countries struggling to purchase related equipment and technology in public. No matter how the opponents protest, the fate of energy revolution is now inevitable.

Of course, this unavoidable destiny is an opportunity, not a safety guarantee. It in no way suggests that we could just kick back in our lawn chairs and let things slide. On the contrary, we have to keep a cautious eye on this new-born technology, just like we did on everything new before. The right attitude towards nuclear power shall be best summarized in three words: use with care.

##References

- Holton, W. (2005). Power Surge: Renewed Interest in Nuclear Energy. Environmental Health Perspectives, 113(11), A742-A749. Retrieved August 21, 2014, from JSTOR.
- Smith, B., & Makhijani, A. (2006). Nuclear Is Not the Way. The Wilson Quarterly, 30(4), 64-68. Retrieved August 21, 2014, from JSTOR.