
An outlaw of 3 homicides admitted to a fourth one, for which a “criminal”, who had consistently advocated his innocence, has already been executed years ago (Du, 2013). The so-called killer was terminated even before he could get a chance to be proven innocent. Such high productivity of mis-commanded law force is terrifying, yet it is surprisingly common around the globe. That’s why nearly all the nations are questioning about the effectiveness of the death penalty. As a legal term, the best way to evaluate its effectiveness is by examining how well it reflects the law’s will. The law intends people to do the right thing, or at least stay away from wrongdoings. Thus, legal penalties should not be here to hurt; they are here to alert.
The capital punishment does no better in preventing crimes than other penalties. All punishing methods, just like labels on shelves, warn people about the prize of delicts and crimes. If 1 year in prison is similar to 1 million dollars on the label, then the execution ought to be like thousands of billions so that even the richest dare not to touch. However, this is not always the case. For instance, in the US, about 80% of the executions take place in the south states, yet they still keep the highest murder rate ("Death penalty : facts," 2013). Nevertheless, report from NYU shows that a rising death sentence rate does not usually mean a decline in capital crimes (Devitt, 2012). Norway, Denmark as well as Sweden, which are famous for their low crime rates, has already abandoned the death penalty for over 80 years ("The death penalty," 2013). In this way, the death penalty seems to have little improvement over lifelong incarceration, which sounds as scary.
It is also well-acknowledged that the law favours justice over imbalance. This is exactly the fatal weakness of the death penalty: once a suspect is wrongly killed, no matter how badly people regret, nothing, even the execution of the true criminal, will adequately make up such unrecoverable loss. It is common that a murderer under arrest admits to another crime, but it becomes worrisome if the original suspect is found to have already been executed. In the year 1996, a woman was raped and killed in a public restroom in Inner Mongolia. Police arrested the informant and extorted a confession, who was soon executed. It was not until the year 2006, when a serial killer was captured, did people get to know the truth. Unfortunately, the original case officers were all promoted to higher positions, leaving the responsibility untaken. This is a typical tragedy resulted from a misjudged death penalty. To make things worse, some courts are likely to stay with the original sentences just to save their own good reputation. No matter how sincere the true villains admit to the crimes, like in the Wang Shujin Murder Case (Du, 2013), those courts choose to completely neglect the fact. This is particularly terrifying: a tool designed to protect the law sometimes end up distorting the law itself.
The modern law-keepers are faithfully obeying Sherlock Holmes’ wise words: 
> “when you have eliminated the impossible, whatever remains, however improbable, must be the truth” (Doyle, 2013).
The biggest problem is that few detectives care to, or dare to, suppose an hypothetical criminal into the scene. This causes a major headache for the innocent suspects in serious crimes: if they can not provide solid alibi or proofs as soon as they can, chances are that they can never see another sunrise. Nevertheless, getting involved into crime is basically unpreventable, not to mention that the verdict can never be predicted. The wisest way is of course staying away from everything. Fewer links with others often means fewer troubles in the long run. Gradually, this selfishness is going to impact the social conduct in a way that no law can fix.
Financially speaking, the death penalty is not making good use of taxpayers' money. Although it is easy to believe that a click in trigger costs less than life-long prison consumption, this is often not true. Beside one bullet, the government pays workers to prepare the execution field, supervising the procedure, clean up the body, and get the tedious paperwork settled. This way, the capital punishment costs much more than incarceration, not to mention prison labor is available most of the time.
Since the death penalty is such an ineffective punishment, both morally and economically, it is generally wiser to be outlawed. Since the year 1848, when San Marino, first nation in record, erased the capital punishment from the law, more and more nations are abolishing executions. Panama dropped it; Canada said no to it; Monaco removed it; France stopped it -- 140 countries have so far cancelled the death penalty and the number has never stopped growing: countries like Latvia have just put an end on it as recently as 2012, indicating that such elimination is still in fashion. Brazil and Chile, on the other hand, have limited executions only to unforgivable crimes, which rarely occur in history. Generally, the global trend is calling for an end for the death penalty for its ineffectiveness. In fact, people are extremely dissatisfied with the present situation of the death penalty. Cases are that victims’ families often ask the courts not to execute the murderers for there is no point killing for killing. Execution makes no compensation but another heart-broken family. Additionally, there are non-governmental organizations that push on movements against the capital punishment. All of these voices represent citizen’s refusal towards such unwise, primitive punishment.
From lawyers’ perspective, the death penalty is sometimes ruining the law; from economists’ view, it is not budget friendly for the government; from global opinion, it is getting obsolete for the modern society. Every clue has proved the ineffectiveness of the capital punishment. The existence of additional killing is no longer worthwhile. It is better to have the death penalty terminated, for the sake of justice.

## References
- Du, J. (2013, Jul. 8). Failing trust in China’s courts: Is Wang Shujin the last straw? - TLN. Retrieved from http://www.tealeafnation.com/2013/07/failing-public-trust-in-chinas-courts/
- Death penalty : facts. (2013, May 31). Retrieved from http://www.deathpenalty.org/section.php ?id=13
- Devitt, J. (2012, Feb. 22). No link between the death penalty and capital crimes, sociologists find in study of trinidad and tobago. Retrieved from http://www.nyu.edu/about/ news-publications/news/2012/02/22/no-link-between-the-death-penalty-and-capital-crimes-sociologists-find-in-study-of-trinidad-and-tobago.html
- The death penalty worldwide | infoplease.com. (2013, Dec. 4). Retrieved from http://www.infople ase.com/ipa/A0777460.html
- Doyle, A. (2013). The sign of the four. (p. 40). Studio City, CA: Empire Books. Retrieved from http://www.amazon.com/Sign-Four-Arthur-Conan-Doyle/dp/1619491737/