In his work Something has happened to communications, Rob Brown (2009) argues that the emerging concept of Web 2.0 is revolutionizing communications by giving users control over both the generation and the consumption of content. Although no new tool was used during the creation, Web 2.0 has gained huge popularity since its birth. According to Brown, the exponential growth of this new concept in turn urges traditional media to transform. First, newspapers could benefit from publishing stories online. They can extend public relations coverage by serving web-exclusive stories. Also, online publishing is more responsive to real-time reports. Additionally, the presses could reduce printing cost by migrating content to the Internet. Second, the ubiquity of Internet devices enables people to consume TV and radio programs whenever and wherever they feel like to. This gives stations more direct access to their audiences. Meanwhile, Brown argued that producers have to make sure that their content is truly appealing. Additionally, images should be enjoyable over a wide spectrum of screen sizes. Finally, the Internet provides a novel platform for content delivery and customer-company communication. Although the web is blurring out the boundary between the online world and the offline reality, it is not likely to replace any traditional mass-communication channel.


Word count: 206

Brown, R.  (2009). Something has happened to communications. In J. Williams (2013), LEAP advanced: reading and writing (pp. 103-106). Montreal: Pearson.